frontend/README.md, before:

# Welcome to your Expo app 👋

This is an [Expo](https://expo.dev) project created with [`create-expo-app`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/create-expo-app).

## Get started

1. Install dependencies

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. Start the app

   ```bash
   npx expo start
   ```

In the output, you'll find options to open the app in a

- [development build](https://docs.expo.dev/develop/development-builds/introduction/)
- [Android emulator](https://docs.expo.dev/workflow/android-studio-emulator/)
- [iOS simulator](https://docs.expo.dev/workflow/ios-simulator/)
- [Expo Go](https://expo.dev/go), a limited sandbox for trying out app development with Expo

You can start developing by editing the files inside the **app** directory. This project uses [file-based routing](https://docs.expo.dev/router/introduction).

## Get a fresh project

When you're ready, run:

```bash
npm run reset-project
```

This command will move the starter code to the **app-example** directory and create a blank **app** directory where you can start developing.

## Learn more

To learn more about developing your project with Expo, look at the following resources:

- [Expo documentation](https://docs.expo.dev/): Learn fundamentals, or go into advanced topics with our [guides](https://docs.expo.dev/guides).
- [Learn Expo tutorial](https://docs.expo.dev/tutorial/introduction/): Follow a step-by-step tutorial where you'll create a project that runs on Android, iOS, and the web.

## Join the community

Join our community of developers creating universal apps.

- [Expo on GitHub](https://github.com/expo/expo): View our open source platform and contribute.
- [Discord community](https://chat.expo.dev): Chat with Expo users and ask questions.

Commit message:

Migrate backend from NestJS to Payload CMS
Removed legacy backend directory and added BabblinGoAdmin with Payload CMS, including configuration, environment, Docker, and test files. Updated root and frontend README files to reflect the new architecture and setup.

frontend/README.md, after:

# BabblinGo Frontend

This directory contains the Expo application for BabblinGo. It consumes the APIs exposed by the Payload CMS instance running from `../BabblinGoAdmin`.

## Get started

1. Install dependencies

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. Start the app

   ```bash
   npx expo start
   ```

In the output, you'll find options to open the app in a development build, an Android emulator, an iOS simulator, or the Expo Go sandbox.

You can start developing by editing the files inside the **app** directory. This project uses [file-based routing](https://docs.expo.dev/router/introduction).

> Make sure the Payload CMS (`../BabblinGoAdmin`) is running before testing screens that rely on backend data.

## Get a fresh project

When you're ready, run:

```bash
npm run reset-project
```

This command will move the starter code to the **app-example** directory and create a blank **app** directory where you can start developing.

## Learn more

To learn more about developing your project with Expo, look at the following resources:

- [Expo documentation](https://docs.expo.dev/): Learn fundamentals, or go into advanced topics with our [guides](https://docs.expo.dev/guides).
- [Learn Expo tutorial](https://docs.expo.dev/tutorial/introduction/): Follow a step-by-step tutorial where you'll create a project that runs on Android, iOS, and the web.

## Join the community

Join our community of developers creating universal apps.

- [Expo on GitHub](https://github.com/expo/expo): View our open source platform and contribute.
- [Discord community](https://chat.expo.dev): Chat with Expo users and ask questions.
